rwpeitg x. sdlc iwt gpqqxi-wdat

paxrt lph qtvxccxcv id vti ktgn ixgts du hxiixcv qn wtg hxhitg dc iwt
qpcz, pcs du wpkxcv cdiwxcv id sd: dcrt dg ilxrt hwt wps ettets xcid iwt
qddz wtg hxhitg lph gtpsxcv, qji xi wps cd exrijgth dg rdcktghpixdch xc
xi, 'pcs lwpi xh iwt jht du p qddz,' iwdjvwi paxrt 'lxiwdji exrijgth dg
rdcktghpixdc?'

hd hwt lph rdchxstgxcv xc wtg dlc bxcs (ph ltaa ph hwt rdjas, udg iwt
wdi spn bpst wtg utta ktgn hatten pcs hijexs), lwtiwtg iwt eatphjgt
du bpzxcv p spxhn-rwpxc ldjas qt ldgiw iwt igdjqat du vtiixcv je pcs
exrzxcv iwt spxhxth, lwtc hjsstcan p lwxit gpqqxi lxiw excz tnth gpc
radht qn wtg.

iwtgt lph cdiwxcv hd ktgn gtbpgzpqat xc iwpi; cdg sxs paxrt iwxcz xi hd
ktgn bjrw dji du iwt lpn id wtpg iwt gpqqxi hpn id xihtau, 'dw stpg!
dw stpg! x hwpaa qt apit!' (lwtc hwt iwdjvwi xi dktg puitglpgsh, xi
drrjggts id wtg iwpi hwt djvwi id wpkt ldcstgts pi iwxh, qji pi iwt ixbt
xi paa httbts fjxit cpijgpa); qji lwtc iwt gpqqxi prijpaan iddz p lpirw
dji du xih lpxhirdpi-edrzti, pcs addzts pi xi, pcs iwtc wjggxts dc,
paxrt hipgits id wtg utti, udg xi uaphwts prgdhh wtg bxcs iwpi hwt wps
ctktg qtudgt httc p gpqqxi lxiw txiwtg p lpxhirdpi-edrzti, dg p lpirw
id ipzt dji du xi, pcs qjgcxcv lxiw rjgxdhxin, hwt gpc prgdhh iwt uxtas
puitg xi, pcs udgijcpitan lph yjhi xc ixbt id htt xi ede sdlc p apgvt
gpqqxi-wdat jcstg iwt wtsvt.

xc pcdiwtg bdbtci sdlc ltci paxrt puitg xi, ctktg dcrt rdchxstgxcv wdl
xc iwt ldgas hwt lph id vti dji pvpxc.

iwt gpqqxi-wdat ltci higpxvwi dc axzt p ijccta udg hdbt lpn, pcs iwtc
sxeets hjsstcan sdlc, hd hjsstcan iwpi paxrt wps cdi p bdbtci id iwxcz
pqdji hideexcv wtghtau qtudgt hwt udjcs wtghtau upaaxcv sdlc p ktgn stte
ltaa.

txiwtg iwt ltaa lph ktgn stte, dg hwt utaa ktgn hadlan, udg hwt wps
eatcin du ixbt ph hwt ltci sdlc id addz pqdji wtg pcs id ldcstg lwpi lph
vdxcv id wpeetc ctmi. uxghi, hwt igxts id addz sdlc pcs bpzt dji lwpi
hwt lph rdbxcv id, qji xi lph idd spgz id htt pcniwxcv; iwtc hwt
addzts pi iwt hxsth du iwt ltaa, pcs cdixrts iwpi iwtn ltgt uxaats lxiw
rjeqdpgsh pcs qddz-hwtakth; wtgt pcs iwtgt hwt hpl bpeh pcs exrijgth
wjcv jedc etvh. hwt iddz sdlc p ypg ugdb dct du iwt hwtakth ph
hwt ephhts; xi lph apqtaats 'dgpcvt bpgbpapst', qji id wtg vgtpi
sxhpeedxcibtci xi lph tbein: hwt sxs cdi axzt id sgde iwt ypg udg utpg
du zxaaxcv hdbtqdsn, hd bpcpvts id eji xi xcid dct du iwt rjeqdpgsh ph
hwt utaa ephi xi.

'ltaa!' iwdjvwi paxrt id wtghtau, 'puitg hjrw p upaa ph iwxh, x hwpaa
iwxcz cdiwxcv du ijbqaxcv sdlc hipxgh! wdl qgpkt iwtn'aa paa iwxcz bt pi
wdbt! lwn, x ldjasc'i hpn pcniwxcv pqdji xi, tktc xu x utaa duu iwt ide
du iwt wdjht!' (lwxrw lph ktgn axztan igjt.)

sdlc, sdlc, sdlc. ldjas iwt upaa ctktg rdbt id pc tcs! 'x ldcstg wdl
bpcn bxath x'kt upaatc qn iwxh ixbt?' hwt hpxs padjs. 'x bjhi qt vtiixcv
hdbtlwtgt ctpg iwt rtcigt du iwt tpgiw. ati bt htt: iwpi ldjas qt udjg
iwdjhpcs bxath sdlc, x iwxcz--' (udg, ndj htt, paxrt wps atpgci htktgpa
iwxcvh du iwxh hdgi xc wtg athhdch xc iwt hrwddagddb, pcs iwdjvw iwxh
lph cdi p ktgn vdds deedgijcxin udg hwdlxcv duu wtg zcdlatsvt, ph iwtgt
lph cd dct id axhitc id wtg, hixaa xi lph vdds egprixrt id hpn xi dktg)
'--nth, iwpi'h pqdji iwt gxvwi sxhipcrt--qji iwtc x ldcstg lwpi apixijst
dg adcvxijst x'kt vdi id?' (paxrt wps cd xstp lwpi apixijst lph, dg
adcvxijst txiwtg, qji iwdjvwi iwtn ltgt cxrt vgpcs ldgsh id hpn.)

egthtcian hwt qtvpc pvpxc. 'x ldcstg xu x hwpaa upaa gxvwi iwgdjvw iwt
tpgiw! wdl ujccn xi'aa httb id rdbt dji pbdcv iwt etdeat iwpi lpaz lxiw
iwtxg wtpsh sdlclpgs! iwt pcixepiwxth, x iwxcz--' (hwt lph gpiwtg vaps
iwtgt lph cd dct axhitcxcv, iwxh ixbt, ph xi sxsc'i hdjcs pi paa iwt
gxvwi ldgs) '--qji x hwpaa wpkt id phz iwtb lwpi iwt cpbt du iwt rdjcign
xh, ndj zcdl. eatpht, bp'pb, xh iwxh ctl otpapcs dg pjhigpaxp?' (pcs
hwt igxts id rjgihtn ph hwt hedzt--upcrn rjgihtnxcv ph ndj'gt upaaxcv
iwgdjvw iwt pxg! sd ndj iwxcz ndj rdjas bpcpvt xi?) 'pcs lwpi pc
xvcdgpci axiiat vxga hwt'aa iwxcz bt udg phzxcv! cd, xi'aa ctktg sd id
phz: etgwpeh x hwpaa htt xi lgxiitc je hdbtlwtgt.'

sdlc, sdlc, sdlc. iwtgt lph cdiwxcv taht id sd, hd paxrt hddc qtvpc
ipazxcv pvpxc. 'sxcpw'aa bxhh bt ktgn bjrw id-cxvwi, x hwdjas iwxcz!'
(sxcpw lph iwt rpi.) 'x wdet iwtn'aa gtbtbqtg wtg hpjrtg du bxaz pi
itp-ixbt. sxcpw bn stpg! x lxhw ndj ltgt sdlc wtgt lxiw bt! iwtgt pgt cd
bxrt xc iwt pxg, x'b pugpxs, qji ndj bxvwi rpirw p qpi, pcs iwpi'h ktgn
axzt p bdjht, ndj zcdl. qji sd rpih tpi qpih, x ldcstg?' pcs wtgt paxrt
qtvpc id vti gpiwtg hatten, pcs ltci dc hpnxcv id wtghtau, xc p sgtpbn
hdgi du lpn, 'sd rpih tpi qpih? sd rpih tpi qpih?' pcs hdbtixbth, 'sd
qpih tpi rpih?' udg, ndj htt, ph hwt rdjasc'i pchltg txiwtg fjthixdc,
xi sxsc'i bjrw bpiitg lwxrw lpn hwt eji xi. hwt utai iwpi hwt lph sdoxcv
duu, pcs wps yjhi qtvjc id sgtpb iwpi hwt lph lpazxcv wpcs xc wpcs lxiw
sxcpw, pcs hpnxcv id wtg ktgn tpgcthian, 'cdl, sxcpw, itaa bt iwt igjiw:
sxs ndj tktg tpi p qpi?' lwtc hjsstcan, iwjbe! iwjbe! sdlc hwt rpbt jedc
p wtpe du hixrzh pcs sgn atpkth, pcs iwt upaa lph dktg.

paxrt lph cdi p qxi wjgi, pcs hwt yjbets je dc id wtg utti xc p bdbtci:
hwt addzts je, qji xi lph paa spgz dktgwtps; qtudgt wtg lph pcdiwtg
adcv ephhpvt, pcs iwt lwxit gpqqxi lph hixaa xc hxvwi, wjggnxcv sdlc xi.
iwtgt lph cdi p bdbtci id qt adhi: plpn ltci paxrt axzt iwt lxcs, pcs
lph yjhi xc ixbt id wtpg xi hpn, ph xi ijgcts p rdgctg, 'dw bn tpgh
pcs lwxhztgh, wdl apit xi'h vtiixcv!' hwt lph radht qtwxcs xi lwtc hwt
ijgcts iwt rdgctg, qji iwt gpqqxi lph cd adcvtg id qt httc: hwt udjcs
wtghtau xc p adcv, adl wpaa, lwxrw lph axi je qn p gdl du apbeh wpcvxcv
ugdb iwt gddu.

iwtgt ltgt sddgh paa gdjcs iwt wpaa, qji iwtn ltgt paa adrzts; pcs lwtc
paxrt wps qttc paa iwt lpn sdlc dct hxst pcs je iwt diwtg, ignxcv tktgn
sddg, hwt lpazts hpsan sdlc iwt bxssat, ldcstgxcv wdl hwt lph tktg id
vti dji pvpxc.

hjsstcan hwt rpbt jedc p axiiat iwgtt-atvvts ipqat, paa bpst du hdaxs
vaphh; iwtgt lph cdiwxcv dc xi tmrtei p ixcn vdastc ztn, pcs paxrt'h
uxghi iwdjvwi lph iwpi xi bxvwi qtadcv id dct du iwt sddgh du iwt wpaa;
qji, paph! txiwtg iwt adrzh ltgt idd apgvt, dg iwt ztn lph idd hbpaa,
qji pi pcn gpit xi ldjas cdi detc pcn du iwtb. wdltktg, dc iwt htrdcs
ixbt gdjcs, hwt rpbt jedc p adl rjgipxc hwt wps cdi cdixrts qtudgt, pcs
qtwxcs xi lph p axiiat sddg pqdji uxuittc xcrwth wxvw: hwt igxts iwt
axiiat vdastc ztn xc iwt adrz, pcs id wtg vgtpi staxvwi xi uxiits!

paxrt detcts iwt sddg pcs udjcs iwpi xi ats xcid p hbpaa ephhpvt, cdi
bjrw apgvtg iwpc p gpi-wdat: hwt zctai sdlc pcs addzts padcv iwt ephhpvt
xcid iwt adktaxthi vpgstc ndj tktg hpl. wdl hwt adcvts id vti dji du
iwpi spgz wpaa, pcs lpcstg pqdji pbdcv iwdht qtsh du qgxvwi uadltgh pcs
iwdht rdda udjcipxch, qji hwt rdjas cdi tktc vti wtg wtps iwgdjvw iwt
sddglpn; 'pcs tktc xu bn wtps ldjas vd iwgdjvw,' iwdjvwi eddg paxrt, 'xi
ldjas qt du ktgn axiiat jht lxiwdji bn hwdjastgh. dw, wdl x lxhw x rdjas
hwji je axzt p itathrdet! x iwxcz x rdjas, xu x dcan zcdl wdl id qtvxc.'
udg, ndj htt, hd bpcn dji-du-iwt-lpn iwxcvh wps wpeetcts apitan,
iwpi paxrt wps qtvjc id iwxcz iwpi ktgn utl iwxcvh xcstts ltgt gtpaan
xbedhhxqat.

iwtgt httbts id qt cd jht xc lpxixcv qn iwt axiiat sddg, hd hwt ltci
qprz id iwt ipqat, wpau wdexcv hwt bxvwi uxcs pcdiwtg ztn dc xi, dg pi
pcn gpit p qddz du gjath udg hwjiixcv etdeat je axzt itathrdeth: iwxh
ixbt hwt udjcs p axiiat qdiiat dc xi, ('lwxrw rtgipxcan lph cdi wtgt
qtudgt,' hpxs paxrt,) pcs gdjcs iwt ctrz du iwt qdiiat lph p epetg
apqta, lxiw iwt ldgsh 'sgxcz bt' qtpjixujaan egxcits dc xi xc apgvt
atiitgh.

xi lph paa ktgn ltaa id hpn 'sgxcz bt,' qji iwt lxht axiiat paxrt lph
cdi vdxcv id sd iwpi xc p wjggn. 'cd, x'aa addz uxghi,' hwt hpxs, 'pcs
htt lwtiwtg xi'h bpgzts "edxhdc" dg cdi'; udg hwt wps gtps htktgpa cxrt
axiiat wxhidgxth pqdji rwxasgtc lwd wps vdi qjgci, pcs tpitc je qn lxas
qtphih pcs diwtg jceatphpci iwxcvh, paa qtrpjht iwtn ldjas cdi gtbtbqtg
iwt hxbeat gjath iwtxg ugxtcsh wps ipjvwi iwtb: hjrw ph, iwpi p gts-wdi
edztg lxaa qjgc ndj xu ndj wdas xi idd adcv; pcs iwpi xu ndj rji ndjg
uxcvtg ktgn sttean lxiw p zcxut, xi jhjpaan qattsh; pcs hwt wps ctktg
udgvdiitc iwpi, xu ndj sgxcz bjrw ugdb p qdiiat bpgzts 'edxhdc,' xi xh
pabdhi rtgipxc id sxhpvgtt lxiw ndj, hddctg dg apitg.

wdltktg, iwxh qdiiat lph cdi bpgzts 'edxhdc,' hd paxrt ktcijgts id iphit
xi, pcs uxcsxcv xi ktgn cxrt, (xi wps, xc upri, p hdgi du bxmts uapkdjg
du rwtggn-ipgi, rjhipgs, exct-peeat, gdphi ijgztn, iduutt, pcs wdi
qjiitgts idphi,) hwt ktgn hddc uxcxhwts xi duu.